[Post ] Gemifying your style guide to DRY your CSS (#216)
ombulabs/blog: _posts/2020-01-13-gemifying-your-styleguide.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "Gemifying your style guide to DRY your CSS"
date: 2020-01-30 10:30:00

> categories: ["gem", "styleguide", "solid"]

Reviewer: @cleicar let's try to use categories that we already have

```suggestion
categories: ["gems", "dry", "ruby"]
```

require_relative 'ombulabs/styleguide/version'

Gem::Specification.new do |spec|
  spec.name           = 'ombulabs-styleguide'
  spec.version        = Styleguide.gem_version
  spec.authors        = ['OmbuLabs']
  spec.email          = ['hello@ombulabs.com']

  spec.summary        = 'Style Guide for all OmbuLabs products'
  spec.homepage       = 'https://github.com/ombulabs/styleguide'

  # Rails
  spec.add_dependency 'rails', '>= 5.2.1'
  spec.add_dependency 'sass-rails', '>= 5.0'
  # Jquery
  spec.add_dependency 'jquery-rails', '>= 4.3.0'
  # Bootstrap
  spec.add_dependency 'bootstrap-sass', '>= 3.4.0'
  # Popper
  spec.add_dependency 'popper_js', '>= 1.14.5'
  spec.add_dependency 'material_design_lite-sass', '>= 1.3.0'
end
```

By default the gem is created as a module, but we need to turn into an engine, because we need to be able to integrate the gem code into any Rails application. In case you want to understand more about Rails engine, check [this link](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/engines.html).

So, let's change the `lib/ombulabs-styleguide.rb`

```ruby
module Ombulabs
  module Styleguide
    class Engine < ::Rails::Engine
    end
  end
end
```

> Now we need to copy all the assets for the `vendor\assets` folder. The project structure will be like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we need to copy all the assets for the `vendor/assets` folder. The project structure will be like this:
```

<img src="/blog/assets/images/gemifying-your-styleguide-img-01.png" alt="Folder structure" style="width: 300px; margin: 0;">

Go back to the .gemspec file and make sure that the new files will be loaded adding the following line:

```ruby
spec.files = Dir['vendor/**/*']
```

And this is it! The gem is ready to be used.

## Adding the gem to a project

To use our new created gem we need to bundle it like any other gem. So add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'ombulabs-styleguide'
```

And then execute:

`$ bundle install`

The next step is to require the new gem assets into the application:

If using SASS, in `application.scss`, add:

```sass
@import "ombulabs/styleguide";
```

And in `application.js` add:

```javascript
//= require ombulabs/styleguide
```

Now start the application and the gem assets should be available to use.

> You can see our style guide code in this GitHub repository: [https://github.com/fastruby/styleguide](https://github.com/fastruby/styleguide).

Reviewer: @cleicar shouldn't you link the one for ombulabs here? since that's the one you talked in the article

Author: @lubc yeah this is a bit confuse because the new Ombu Labs styleguide is hosted inside Fast Ruby account, like we can see here: https://github.com/fastruby/styleguide. It says "Ombulabs::Styleguide". 

But the hosted page says that it's "FastRuby Style Guide": https://fastruby.github.io/styleguide

So there a few things we need to know:
- Will this style guide be applied to Ombulabs products or only Fast Ruby's?
- Should we fix Fast Ruby styleguide to say that is Ombu Labs styleguide?
- Should we update Ombu Labs styleguide before release this article?

@ABizzinotto @etagwerker I would like to know your thoughts.

Reviewer 2: > the new Ombu Labs styleguide is hosted inside Fast Ruby account, like we can see here: https://github.com/fastruby/styleguide.

The OmbuLabs style guide is here: 

- https://github.com/ombulabs/styleguide
- https://ombulabs.github.io/styleguide/

>  It says "Ombulabs::Styleguide".

This is a typo in the FastRuby.io style guide. It should be corrected in the README: https://github.com/fastruby/styleguide

Author: Thanks @etagwerker.

So this article should be about Fast Ruby style guide (since this is the one we turned into a gem). 

I suggested move this article to Fast Ruby blog and I'll do a few changes. What do you think?

## Conclusion

> As developers, we are always thinking in the better way to organize our code and follow good practices, so here is our solution to share the same assets code between our several products. If you're facing the same issue, I hope that this can be useful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As developers, we are always thinking about the best way to organize our code and follow good practices, so here is our solution to share the same assets code amongst our several products. If you're facing the same issue, I hope that this is useful.
```

## Extra

> Want to see our style guide applied? Check our proudly projects: [Fastruby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) and [Audit Tool](https://audit.fastruby.io).

Reviewer: @cleicar hm, this is a bit confusing since those are not using the ombulabs styleguide

> Want to see our style guide applied? Check our proudly projects: [Fastruby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) and [Audit Tool](https://audit.fastruby.io).

Reviewer 3: @cleicar here it'd need to be "Check our projects:" or "We're proud to present our projects:"
